
This file contains general unpackaging instructions for WordNet
compressed tar file packages and Windows self extracting archives.

Compressed Tar Files
====================

All WordNet packages are distributed as compressed tar files,
generally for use on Unix systems.  Some packages contain only ASCII
data, and can be installed on Windows systems as well.  Many Windows
archive programs, such as WinZip, can unbundle compressed tar files.

Some packages can be downloaded as one large file or many smaller files.

For example, WordNet-1.7.1.tar.gz is all of the WordNet database
package in a single file.  WordNet-1.7.1.tar.gz.XY, where "XY" is two
lower case letters, is a series of 512Kb files.  If you choose the
smaller files, you must make sure that you download every file.

Under Unix, to unbundle the Unix distribution from the split files,
first download all the parts.  Put the files in the directory from
which you want to install the package.  Next 'cat' them together, and
pipe the results through 'gunzip' and 'tar' as shown in the following
command:

	cat wn17.unix.tar.gz.a* | gunzip | tar xvf -

If you have downloaded a single file instead of a series of smaller
ones, you can unbundle it with the command:

	gunzip -c wn17.unix.tar.gz | tar xvf -

Under Windows, the archive utility should be able to detect a
compressed tar file and know how to unpackage it.  The only caution
here is to make sure that it doesn't automatically convert Unix
"newline" characters to "carraige-return/linefeed" sequences. This is
usually an option somewhere in the utility.

Windows Self-extracting Archives
================================

The WordNet database package for Windows is distributed as a
self-extracting archives.  The package is available as either one
large file, or a series of 512Kb files.  If you choose to the smaller
files, you must make sure that you download every file.

Once downloaded, simply double-click on the file that ends with ".exe"
and the package will unbundle itself.

Directories
===========

All additional (non-database) WordNet packages should be downloaded
into the $WNHOME directory (the directory that you installed the
WordNet package into), then unbundled and installed as described
above.  Each package will create its own subdirectory in $WNHOME.
Additional information and installation instructions can be found in
the INSTALL file in each subdirectory.

Cleaning Up
===========

After a package is installed, the archive file from which it was
installed can be removed to save disk space.

Gzip Utility
============

Some packages have been compressed with 'gzip'.  To install a package
compressed with 'gzip' on a Unix system, you need to have 'gzip' (or
'gunzip') on your system.  If you don't, you can download it from
"prep.ai.mit.edu" or one of the numerous FTP sites that mirror the GNU
software.
